tutorials/config.md, before:

Site Config
===========

# Site info

## `title`

Your site title.

## `subtitle`

Your site subtitle.

## `description`

Your site description.

## `author`

Usually, this is your name or nickname.

## `email`

Your email.

## `language`

Your site's language, please refer to your theme for available options list. Hikaru does **NOT** support multi-lingual site. In fact only few people can write their site in different languages totally, most people do part of translation and makes their site a mess. It's more convenient to create two site with different languages, then you can arrange them by yourself. Multi-lingual site makes theme harder to write.

Hikaru contains **NO** timezone settings, it use your system timezone.

# Dir config

## `baseURL`

Your site's base URL, like `https://example.com`. **Don't add trailing `/` to URL.**

## `rootDir`

Your site's root dir, starts with `/` like UNIX path, and also end with a `/` to hint that it is a dir.

For example, if you want to put your site in `https://example.com/blog/`, you can set it to `/blog/`, or if you create different sites with different languages, you can set it to `/en/` or `/zh_CN/`. If you don't need to put your site into a subdir, just set it to `/`.

## `srcDir`

Your site's src dir, you can move `srcs/` to another name and change this.

## `docDir`

Your site's doc dir, you can move `docs/` to another name and change this.

## `themeDir`

Your site's theme, this is a sub dir relative to site dir, for example, you cloned `hikaru-theme-aria` to `themes/aria`, you need to set it to `themes/aria`.

## `indexDir`

A dir to place your site's index sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`, generally use a `.` if you want to put indices directly into `docDir`.

## `archiveDir`

A dir to place your site's archive sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

## `categoryDir`

A dir to place your site's category sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

## `tagDir`

A dir to place your site's tag sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

# Other options

## `perPage`

When paginating, how many posts in a single page. You can just set a number for all layout, or you can set it as an object to let different layout hold different number of posts.

```yaml
# One for all.
perPage: 10

# Differs from layouts.
perPage:
  index: 10
  archives: 15
  category: 15
  tag: 15
```

## `skipRender`

A list for files that won't be rendered, paths are relative to `srcDir`, for example:

```yaml
skipRender:
  - README.md
  - EXAMPLE.md
  - TOC.md
```

## `highlight`

Options for builtin highlight processor powered by [highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/).

```yaml
highlight:
  # Whether use builtin processor. You can set to false if you want to do highlight in browser.
  enable: true
  # Whether to generate gutter (a column for line numbers). Set `enable: false` won't disable gutter if you set `true` here.
  gutter: true
  # Add `hljs-` perfix to generate highlight class name. By default it's `true` because CSS files need this.
  hljs: true
```

You can attach other highlight.js options in this section of configure file.

For different npm modules, you can set their options as their docs, and it will be passed when rendering.

Commit message:

Updated heading IDs generating and dropped highlight.js.

tutorials/config.md, after:

Site Config
===========

# Site info

## `title`

Your site title.

## `subtitle`

Your site subtitle.

## `description`

Your site description.

## `author`

Usually, this is your name or nickname.

## `email`

Your email.

## `language`

Your site's language, please refer to your theme for available options list. Hikaru does **NOT** support multi-lingual site. In fact only few people can write their site in different languages totally, most people do part of translation and makes their site a mess. It's more convenient to create two site with different languages, then you can arrange them by yourself. Multi-lingual site makes theme harder to write.

Hikaru contains **NO** timezone settings, it use your system timezone.

# Dir config

## `baseURL`

Your site's base URL, like `https://example.com`. **Don't add trailing `/` to URL.**

## `rootDir`

Your site's root dir, starts with `/` like UNIX path, and also end with a `/` to hint that it is a dir.

For example, if you want to put your site in `https://example.com/blog/`, you can set it to `/blog/`, or if you create different sites with different languages, you can set it to `/en/` or `/zh_CN/`. If you don't need to put your site into a subdir, just set it to `/`.

## `srcDir`

Your site's src dir, you can move `srcs/` to another name and change this.

## `docDir`

Your site's doc dir, you can move `docs/` to another name and change this.

## `themeDir`

Your site's theme, this is a sub dir relative to site dir, for example, you cloned `hikaru-theme-aria` to `themes/aria`, you need to set it to `themes/aria`.

## `indexDir`

A dir to place your site's index sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`, generally use a `.` if you want to put indices directly into `docDir`.

## `archiveDir`

A dir to place your site's archive sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

## `categoryDir`

A dir to place your site's category sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

## `tagDir`

A dir to place your site's tag sub page generated automatically by Hikaru (No source path), relative to `docDir`.

# Other options

## `perPage`

When paginating, how many posts in a single page. You can just set a number for all layout, or you can set it as an object to let different layout hold different number of posts.

```yaml
# One for all.
perPage: 10

# Differs from layouts.
perPage:
  index: 10
  archives: 15
  category: 15
  tag: 15
```

## `skipRender`

A list for files that won't be rendered, paths are relative to `srcDir`, for example:

```yaml
skipRender:
  - README.md
  - EXAMPLE.md
  - TOC.md
```

## `contentsResolving`

This controls how Hikaru handles your content. Generally you should not disable them, but if you have plugins to do them same things for you, you could disable them.

```yaml
contentsResolving:
  enable: true
  headingIDs:
    enable: true
    # Set to `""` to keep compatible with Hikaru v1.20.1 and older.
    safeChar: "-"
  toc:
    enable: true
  anchors:
    enable: true
  images:
    enable: true
  codeBlocks:
    enable: true
    lineNumbers: false
```

Before Hikaru v1.21.0, it simply removes unsupported chars in headings in order to make an IDs for headings. In Hikaru v1.21.0 this is changed to replace unsupported chars with `safeChar`, if you don't want to break existing URL hashes, you can set `safeChar: ""` to use the old behavior.

For different npm modules, you can set their options as their docs, and it will be passed when rendering.
