tutorials/extend.md, before:

Extend
======

Hikaru supports plugins and scripts, but not all parts of Hikaru are designed for them. There are some parts that you can add your code. Please read API reference for detailed parameter type.

# `Compiler`

`Compiler` is used to compile template, you can register different template engine here.

## `register(ext, fn)`

`ext` starts with `.`, `fn` with the same `ext` will be replaced, so you can replace internal compilers. `fn` should return a render function, which takes a ctx as argument and render it into templates.

# `Decorator`

Decorator will be called before writing pages or posts to disk, it will get correct template for file's layout and render it's content.

# `register(layout, fn, ctx = {})`

Register a layout, `fn` should be a render function compiled from a template by compiler. If you want to pass some custom variables to this layout, you can use `ctx`, it will be append to the ctx that is used when render function is called.

# `unregister(layout)`

Unregister a layout, useful if you use watcher on layouts and some files are deleted.

# `Renderer`

Each file will be rendered first, and return an array of rendered files with a new extname, you can register new render function to it.

## `register(srcExt, docExt, fn)`

`srcExt` and `docExt` are start with `.`. A file with `srcExt` extend name will be render and change to `docExt`. `Renderer` will call `fn` to render it, `file` is `Hikaru::types.File`. `fn` should return `Hikaru::types.File`.

`fn` with the same `srcExt` and `docExt` will be replaced, so you can replace internal renderers.

# `Processor`

`Processor` is used to modify contents in `site`. Hikaru resolves links and image sources via it. It is also used for building sequence for posts, generating data structures for categories and tags.

## `register(name, fn)`

`name` should be a short description. `fn` will be run in registration sequence, so you may need to update post sequence if you remove some posts, because it is a internal processor and will run before yours.

# `Generator`

`Generator` is used to generated some files or data that has no source file. For example, tags, categories and sitemap.

## `register(name, fn)`

`name` should be a short description. You can return one file or an Array of files. `fn` will be run in registration sequence.

# `Helper`

`Helper` is used to add custom properties to the decorating context of templates, for example you want to use a custom JavaScript function in templates.

## `register(name, fn)`

`name` should be a short description. `fn` accepts site and current file as arguments, and the returned object will be merged with other handlers to create a context.

# `Watcher`

Watcher is used to watch some files under a dir. It supports dependencies, so if a file is modified, other files depends on it will also be in changed list.

## `register(dirs, fn, opts = {})`

Start watching on some dirs and add a listener `fn` to them, `fn`'s first argument is dir and second argument is an object contains `added`, `changed` and `removed` files. You can register different listeners to the same dir, they will be called in registration sequence, but only the latest opts will be used.

## `unregister(dirs)`

Stop watching on some dirs.

Commit message:

Added layout filter to helper and updated argument type checks.

tutorials/extend.md, after:

Extend
======

Hikaru supports plugins and scripts, but not all parts of Hikaru are designed for them. There are some parts that you can add your code. Please read API reference for detailed parameter type.

# `Compiler`

`Compiler` is used to compile template, you can register different template engine here.

## `register(ext, fn)`

`ext` starts with `.`, `fn` with the same `ext` will be replaced, so you can replace internal compilers. `fn` should return a render function, which takes a ctx as argument and render it into templates.

# `Decorator`

Decorator will be called before writing pages or posts to disk, it will get correct template for file's layout and render it's content.

# `register(layout, fn, ctx = {})`

Register a layout, `fn` should be a decorator function compiled from a template by compiler. If you want to pass some custom variables to this layout, you can use `ctx`, it will be add to the content that is used when decorator function is called.

# `unregister(layout)`

Unregister a layout, useful if you use watcher on layouts and some files are deleted.

# `Renderer`

Each file will be rendered first, and return an array of rendered files with a new extname, you can register new render function to it.

## `register(srcExt, docExt, fn)`

`srcExt` and `docExt` are start with `.`. A file with `srcExt` extend name will be render and change to `docExt`. `Renderer` will call `fn` to render it, `file` is `Hikaru::types.File`. `fn` should return `Hikaru::types.File`.

`fn` with the same `srcExt` and `docExt` will be replaced, so you can replace internal renderers.

# `Processor`

`Processor` is used to modify contents in `site`. Hikaru resolves links and image sources via it. It is also used for building sequence for posts, generating data structures for categories and tags.

## `register(name, fn)`

`name` should be a short description. `fn` will be run in registration sequence, so you may need to update post sequence if you remove some posts, because it is a internal processor and will run before yours.

# `Generator`

`Generator` is used to generated some files or data that has no source file. For example, tags, categories and sitemap.

## `register(name, fn)`

`name` should be a short description. You can return one file or an Array of files. `fn` will be run in registration sequence.

# `Helper`

`Helper` is used to add custom properties to the decorating context of templates, for example you want to use a custom JavaScript function in templates.

## `register(name, fn, layout = null)`

`name` should be a short description. `fn` accepts site and current file as arguments, and the returned object will be merged with other handlers to create a context. If you only want to run the helper function on a specific layout, pass it via `layout` as a filter.

# `Watcher`

Watcher is used to watch some files under a dir. It supports dependencies, so if a file is modified, other files depends on it will also be in changed list.

## `register(dirs, fn, opts = {})`

Start watching on some dirs and add a listener `fn` to them, `fn`'s first argument is dir and second argument is an object contains `added`, `changed` and `removed` files. You can register different listeners to the same dir, they will be called in registration sequence, but only the latest opts will be used.

## `unregister(dirs)`

Stop watching on some dirs.
