Types
=====

This page contains types that Hikaru uses. Most of them are just class for plain object.

# `File`

`File` contains all properties that a file will have. Not all properties are available on all files.

## `docDir`

Where to output the file, it should be the site's `docDir`.

## `docPath`

Output file's path relative to `docDir`, which was determined by `Renderer`.

## `srcDir`

Where the file was read, it should be the site's `srcDir` or `themeSrcDir`.

## `srcPath`

Input file's path relative to `srcDir`.

## `created`

File's created time from its front matter. Only available for posts and pages. `createdDate` is deprecated, please use this instead.

## `updated`

File's updated time from its front matter. Only available for posts and pages. `updatedDate` is deprecated, please use this instead.

## `title`

File's title from its front matter. Only available for posts and pages.

## `layout`

File's layout from its front matter. Only available for posts and pages.

## `draft`

Whether post is a draft, draft will be skipped while building, but not skipped while serving.

## `categories`

Post's categories from its front matter, it will be generated into `Category` array before processing. Only available for posts.

## `tags`

Post's tags from its front matter, it will be generated into `Tags` array before processing. Only available for posts.

## `raw`

File's raw content that is read from disk directly.

## `text`

File's text content after front matter. For binary assets this has no meaning.

## `content`

Rendered content that is wrote to disk directly or after decorate.

## `type`

Whether file is a `asset`, `post`, `page` or `file`.

## `frontMatter`

The original parsed YAML front matter object. Only available for posts and pages.

## `excerpt`

Typically content before `<!--more-->` tag in post.

## `more`

Typically content after `<!--more-->` tag in post.

## `toc`

TOC for page content.

## `posts`

Attached posts for page.

## `pages`

The series of pages generated by `paginate` util function from a single page. Only available for pages.  `pageArray` is deprecated, please use this instead.

## `index`

The index in the series of pages generated by `paginate` util function from a single page. **Begin from 0**. Only available for pages. `pageIndex` is deprecated, please use this instead.

## `next`

Next post reference in date sequence. Only available for posts.

## `prev`

Previous post reference in date sequence. Only available for posts.

# `Category`

`Category` is a recursive data structure typecially because a category may have sub categories.

## `name`

Category's name to display.

## `posts`

All posts belong to this category.

## `subs`

An array of `Category`, which contains sub categories.

# `Tag`

`Tag` looks like `Category`, however it's not recursive.

## `name`

Tag's name to display.

## `posts`

All posts belong to this Tag.

# `TOC`

`TOC` is a recursive data structure typecially because a header may have sub haeders.

## `text`

Header's text to display.

## `name`

Header's tag name.

## `anchor`

HTML anchor for this header.

## `subs`

An array of `TOC`, which contains sub header.

# `Site`

Site's properties and methods.

## `siteDir`

In which directory Hikaru works.

## `siteConfig`

From site's `site-config.yaml` file but `srcDir`, `docDir`, `themeDir`, `themeSrcDir` are converted to full path relative to `siteDir` for easier to use.

## `themeConfig`

From theme's `theme-config.yaml` file.

## `languages`

A ES6 Map that holds all language contents, key is file path and value is file content, if you want parsed objects, use Translator.

## `layouts`

A ES6 Map that holds all layout contents, key is file path and value is file content, if you want compiled functions, use Decorator. This is useful if you want to write custom file loader for templating engines.

## `assets`

Array of asset `File`s.

## `pages`

Array of page `File`s.

## `posts`

Array of post `File`s.

## `files`

Array of other site file `File`s.

## `categories`

Array of `Category`s, which contains all categories of site's posts. It is recursive, the top array only contains top-level categories and other's are in their `subs` array.

## `categoriesLength`

Because `Category` is recursive, `Site::categories.length` is only the number of top-level categories, this is **the number of all categories of site's posts**.

## `tags`

Array of `Tag`s, which contains all tags of site's posts.

## `tagsLength`

This is **the number of all tags of site's posts**, though `Tag` is not recursive.
